monitorizacion/zabbix/agent.md, before:

https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/3.4/manual/concepts/agent

Zabbix agent is deployed on a monitoring target to actively monitor local resources and applications (hard drives, memory, processor statistics etc).
The agent gathers operational information locally and reports data to Zabbix server for further processing.
Corre como no root

sender.md para utilidad standalone para enviar resultados (esta en los agentes)
get.md para testear agentes (esta en el server)

# Active / Passive
In a passive check the agent responds to a data request. Zabbix server (or proxy) asks for data, for example, CPU load, and Zabbix agent sends back the result.
Active checks require more complex processing. The agent must first retrieve a list of items from Zabbix server for independent processing. Then it will periodically send new values to the server.

Passive Agent <--- Server
Active: Agent ---> Server


# Install
Arch: pacman -Ss zabbix-agent

# Config
https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/3.4/manual/appendix/config/zabbix_agentd

/etc/zabbix/zabbix_agentd.conf

Server=
  parametro para decir que servidores de zabbix nos pueden solicitar métricas


# Items
https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/3.4/manual/config/items/itemtypes/zabbix_agent
Documentación de que es cada item y que parámetros se pueden pasar


# Comandos externos
https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/3.4/manual/config/items/itemtypes/zabbix_agent
system.run[command,<mode>]
Luego podemos usar un preprocesador para obtener valores del check
Hace fork para ejecutar, cuidado con la performance

# UserParameter
Tambien podemos definir un UserParameter en cada agente.
Este podremos configurarlo desde la interfaz web y ejecutará el script que hayamos configurado en la config del agete.
Hace fork para ejecutar, cuidado con la performance

Ejemplo:
UserParameter=zabbix-nagios-wrapper[*],<Path-to>/zabbix-nagios-wrapper "$1" "$2" "$3" "$4"


# Forzar chequeo inmediato
No se puede por ahora (Nov 2017)
https://support.zabbix.com/browse/ZBXNEXT-473
https://support.zabbix.com/browse/ZBXNEXT-810


# Extender el agente / loadable modules
https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/3.4/manual/config/items/loadablemodules
Usar go para crear modulos: https://github.com/cavaliercoder/g2z
Los modulos no pueden acceder a la config del agente. Tendrán que usar un fichero externo.

Commit message:

Auto save
Former-commit-id: a5ef39c353f900f648f3d98e819af934791154c9

monitorizacion/zabbix/agent.md, after:

https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/3.4/manual/concepts/agent

Zabbix agent is deployed on a monitoring target to actively monitor local resources and applications (hard drives, memory, processor statistics etc).
The agent gathers operational information locally and reports data to Zabbix server for further processing.
Corre como no root

sender.md para utilidad standalone para enviar resultados (esta en los agentes)
get.md para testear agentes (esta en el server)

# Active / Passive
In a passive check the agent responds to a data request. Zabbix server (or proxy) asks for data, for example, CPU load, and Zabbix agent sends back the result.
Active checks require more complex processing. The agent must first retrieve a list of items from Zabbix server for independent processing. Then it will periodically send new values to the server.

Passive Agent <--- Server
Active: Agent ---> Server


# Install
Arch: pacman -Ss zabbix-agent

# Config
https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/3.4/manual/appendix/config/zabbix_agentd

/etc/zabbix/zabbix_agentd.conf

Server=
  parametro para decir que servidores de zabbix nos pueden solicitar métricas


# Items
https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/3.4/manual/config/items/itemtypes/zabbix_agent
Documentación de que es cada item y que parámetros se pueden pasar


# Comandos externos
https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/3.4/manual/config/items/itemtypes/zabbix_agent
system.run[command,<mode>]
Luego podemos usar un preprocesador para obtener valores del check
Hace fork para ejecutar, cuidado con la performance

# UserParameter
Tambien podemos definir un UserParameter en cada agente.
Este podremos configurarlo desde la interfaz web y ejecutará el script que hayamos configurado en la config del agete.
Hace fork para ejecutar, cuidado con la performance

Ejemplo:
UserParameter=zabbix-nagios-wrapper[*],<Path-to>/zabbix-nagios-wrapper "$1" "$2" "$3" "$4"


# Forzar chequeo inmediato
No se puede por ahora (Nov 2017)
https://support.zabbix.com/browse/ZBXNEXT-473
https://support.zabbix.com/browse/ZBXNEXT-810


# Auto-registration
https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/3.4/manual/discovery/auto_registration
It is possible to allow active Zabbix agent auto-registration, after which the server can start monitoring them. This way new hosts can be added for monitoring without configuring them manually on the server.
El agente puede funcionar como activo o pasivo



# Extender el agente / loadable modules
https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/3.4/manual/config/items/loadablemodules
Usar go para crear modulos: https://github.com/cavaliercoder/g2z
Los modulos no pueden acceder a la config del agente. Tendrán que usar un fichero externo.
